= How Does The Internet Works? =
The internet is the infrascructure of the web, at the most basic, the internet is a large network of computers wich communicate all together. 

Computers can communicate either pshysically or wirelessly, this communication is not limited to two computers, several computer can be linked together, but this gets complicated quickly, as to connect 10 computers, there would be needed 45 cables and 9 plugs on each computer.

== Routers ==
To solve this problem a computer is connected to a special tiny computer called a _router_, whose main job is to receive a message and ensure that it is given to the right computer, this solves the last problem since now only 10 cables and 10 plus are needed.

Now, cables cannot be plug on a single router infinetly, also, that is not convinient, because if all computers in the world were connected to a single router, it will all crash if this single router fails.

== Modems ==
This problem can be solved using the same method as before, since a router is computer, other routers can be connected to it, even more, this router can be connected to another router that instead of connecting computers connects routers.

This is almost how the internet works, since it would be to expensive to install dedicated internet connections in every house, the telephone infrastructure is used (Since there is already a telephone network in every house), but in order to used this network a special piece of equipment named _modem_ is needed.

This _modem_ turns the information from our _router_ into information manageable by the telephone infrastructure and vice versa.

Once in the telephone network, the information is send to an ISP(_Internet Service Provider_), An ISP is a company that manages special _routers_ that are linked togheter and can communicate with other ISPs' routers, thus, sending information to the corresponding destination.

A simple analogy of this would be sending a letter(the information), first of all you give the letter to a mailman(the router), which hands it over to the post office(IPS) that send the letter to another post office, the post office gives the letter to another mail man, that gill get it to its destination.

== Hops ==
A hop ocurrs every time the data needs to be hand to an intermediate device before getting to its destination, usually, the hop count is used to measure the distance between a source and its destination.

Counting hops of message is useful to limit the times a message can hop before being discarded, thus, avoiding a massage to follow a loop forever

= IP Addresses =
To send a message to a computer, we must specify which one, thus, special addreses known as IP(_Internet Protocol_) are used to identify every computer on a network, IPs are made of a series of four numbers between 0 and 255 separated by dots, for example: `173.194.121.32`

Now days, IPs like the one before are name IPv4(Internet Protocol version 4), which are IP addresses made of 4 bytes( 32 bits), but due to the fast growth of the internet, a new protocol named IPv6(Internet Protocol version 6) was created.

IPv6 have a size of 128 bits(16 bytes), divided in segments of two, for example:
`2607:f8b0:4007:804::200e`

Each value is divided by a colon, and is an hexadecimal value that will be later convert to its binary form.

Note that being a 16 bytes divided in segments of two there should be 8 hexadecimal values and there are only 5 in the example above, this is because in IPv6 notation, zeroes can be ommited using two semicolons, so, the real IP address given above should be
`2607:f8b0:4007:804:0000:0000:0000:200e`

Using IP addresses are perfectly fine for computers, but it would be not so easy for humans to remember a bunch of IPs, so, to make things easier, aliases know as domain name are used.
 
== Tools and commands ==
=== Ping ===
Ping is a software utility that sends a message to a specified host and measures time that it takes the message to reach its destination and get back to the source(round trip).

Ping being name after the term used in SONAR(SOund Navigation and Ranging) to refer to a sound that is transmitted to a target to measure the distance between the source and the target.

we can use ping using the following command:
`ping example.com`

Besides measuring the time that takes a package to make a round trip, `ping` will also report:
	- Packet loss
	- Minimun time
	- Maximun time
	- Mean time
	- Standard deviation

=== Traceroute ===
This utility display(among other information), the number of hops that it takes to a message to get to a target, if can be used with the following command:
`traceroute6 example.com`
Note:: `tracerouter6` is used instead of `traceroute` for IPv6 

Each output line represent a hop in the gateway to the target, also, each line contain the name of the router the followed by two or three time measures(in miliseconds), that represent the that that takes a message to get from your computer to that particular server(just as the ping command), this message is send and measure two or three times.

Lines with an `* * *` output means that the router at that hop does not respond to the type of message we were using for the traceroute

== The internet VS the web == 
It is important to note that the internet and the web are not the same thing, the internet is an infrastructure used to communicate or link computers with one another, some of these computers are called _web servers_, this _web servers_ can send information that is understandable by web browsers, so, the web is only a service (among many others) that is built on top of the internet.

== Resources == 
[[https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/How_does_the_internet_work|MDNHow does the internet work]]
[[https://www.howtogeek.com/341866/how-does-the-internet-work|How To Geek - How does the internet work]]
[[https://en/wikipedia.org/wiki/Hop_(networking)|Wikipedia - Hop]]
[[https://en.wikipedia.com/Sonar|Wikipedia - Sonar]]
[[https://www.techwaalla.com/articles/how-to-read-a traceroute| Techwalla - How to read a traceroute]]
[[https://serverfault.com/a/334034 | Serverfault - what does mean when traceroute]]
[[https://en.wikipedia.com/wiki/IPv6_address|Wikipedia -IPv6]]
